A farm is made up of controls previously in this section we see in a basic text input and a password
control.
These controls are created using the input element an input element with no type specified is a simple
text box but we can optionally specify a value for the type attribute to change what type of input control
is shown.
There are several different types of input control available.
If you don't specify a Type A tahil are specify a type of text you get a single line text input field.
We've also seen the password input field which you create by specifying the type as password.
This looks the same as a regular text input but it input is masked so you can't see what you've typed.
This is to stop someone else who could be looking at your screen seeing what password you typed
as you can see from the documentation.
Several of these for example the email input look exactly the same as a text input the email type is
used when the data in the farm is validated which will look at later.
Other types add to the input to make entering a different type of data easier.
For example the number type adds some spinner controls so the user can easily enter a numeric value.
In addition on a mobile device certain input types will change the onscreen keyboard.
For example a basic text input type will show the default keyboard.
But an email type will additionally show the at sign tell type for telephone numbers will show the numeric
keypad and so on.
All the differences are shown in detail here.
Of all these text type inputs the text password and hidden types are universally supported.
This means they work in all web browsers.
The others like date time were introduced with version 5 of h.t. email each to email L5 which became
a standard in 2011.
Nowadays some of these newer types have a widespread browser support while some aren't supported in
all browsers.
There's information about browser compatibility in the documentation here.
There are also sites like paint him and fight please.
And can I use dot com.
Which tell you the current level of browser support for a particular input type.
We'll see later on how we can use javascript to fix browsers that don't support an input type that we
want to use.
If an input type isn't supported in a browser then the browser simply shows a regular text input.
I've added an example of most of the basic input types to this farm so each one appears on a different
line.
I've put each one inside a diff element but we saw it earlier.
In a browser they are look like this.
And I encourage you to play around with the different input types to see how they work.
This will look different depending on which browser you use.
Depending on its level of support for the different input types for example.
This is in one browser but if we look at the same in a different one we can see that the date and time
types are supported here.
Which they weren't in the other one and they work like this.
Whereas here in the other browser they aren't supported at the at the moment.
After all they just appear as a regular text controls.
This is changing though as browsers develop.
So it's worth checking the websites I mentioned earlier to check the current level of browser support.
If you want to use a particular input type.